README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <h1>TemplateStr-Python</h1>
    <h3>TemplateStr allows to add variable, function, condition and switch in a string.</h3>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-v3.6%5E-green?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=ffd13e&color=3470a2"/>
    <a href="https://github.com/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/actions/workflows/python-app.yml">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/Python test?label=Test&style=flat-square"/>
    </a>
</div>

### Install :

```
pip install https://github.com/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/archive/vX.X.X.tar.gz
```

### Import :

```python
from templateStr import TemplateStr
```

### Construtor :

```python
parser = TemplateStr(functionList: list, variableDict: dict)
```

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary><code>functionList</code>: is a list of Functions you want to pass to be called in your text</summary><br>

```python
funcs: list = [meCustomFunc, otherCustomFunc]
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary><code>variableDict</code>: is a dictionary of the Variables you want to pass to be called in your text</summary><br>

```python
varDict: dict = {
    "Build": "Succes",
    "var": "int",
    "str": "Jame",
    "int": 32,
    "float": 4.2,
    "bool": True,
    "lower": "azerty",
    "upper": "AZERTY",
    "swap": "AzErTy",
    "list": ["test", 42],
    "Dict": {"value": "Dict in Dict"},
    "MasterDict": {"SecondDict": {"value": "Dict in Dict in Dict"}},
}
```

</details>
</li>
</ul>

### Function :

```python
parser.parse(text)
```

- `parse(text: str) -> str` : parse all (variable, function, condition and switch)
- `parseVariable(text: str) -> str` : parse Variable ; ${variableName}
- `parseFunction(text: str) -> str` : parse Function and Custom Function ; @{functionName}
- `parseCondition(text: str) -> str` : parse Condition ; #{value1 == value2; trueValue | falseValue}
- `parseSwitch(text: str) -> str` : parse Switch ; ?{var; value1:#0F0, value2:#00F, ..., _:#000}
- `hasOne(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are one syntaxe
- `hasVariable(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Variable
- `hasFunction(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Function
- `hasCondition(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Condition
- `hasSwitch(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Switch

### Exemple Syntaxe :

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Variable</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Variables is like if :
- `${variable}`
- `${Map.value}`
- `${MasterMap.SecondMap.value. ...}`
- `${list[0]}`

if the value does not exist then `None` is return

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"

"name is ${name}" => parse => "name is Jame"
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Function</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Function is like if : `@{function; parameter}` or `@{function}`

internal function list :

- `@{uppercase; variableName}`
- `@{uppercaseFirst; variableName}`
- `@{lowercase; variableName}`
- `@{swapcase; variableName}`
- `@{time}`
- `@{date}`
- `@{dateTime}`

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "jame"

"name is @{uppercase; name}" => parse => "name is JAME"
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Custom Function</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Custom Function is like if : `@{customFunction; param1 param2 ...}` or `@{customFunction}`

`Syntaxe Typing` can be used at the parameter level of custom functions

For developers :
- Parameters to be passed in a `list/vec/array`
- The custom function must necessarily return a `str/string`

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Condition</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Condition is like if :
- `#{value1 == value2; trueValue | falseValue}`

comparator:
- `==`
- `!=`
- `<=` *
- `<` *
- `>=` *
- `>` *

<details>
<summary>* for this comparator the type <code>string</code> and <code>bool</code> are modified :</summary>

- `string` it's the number of characters that is compared ('text' = 4)
- `bool` it's the value in int that is compared (True = 1)

</details></br>

`value1` is compared with `value2`

`Syntaxe Typing` can be used at `value1` and `value2` level

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"

"Jame is equal to James ? #{name == 'James'; Yes | No}" => parse => "Jame is equal to James ? No"
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Switch</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Switch is like if : 
- `?{variableName; value1::#0F0, value2::#00F, ..., _::#000}`
- `?{type/variableName; value1::#0F0, value2::#00F, ..., _::#000}`

The value of `variableName` is compared with all the `values*`,
if a `values*` is equal to the value of `variableName` then the value after the ":" will be returned

you can specify the type of `variableName`, but don't use `Syntaxe Typing`.
If the type is specified then all `values*` will be typed with the same type.

syntaxe for specify type `variableName` :
- `str`
- `int`
- `float`

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"
yearsOld = 36

"how old is Jame ? ?{name; Jame::42 years old, William::36 years old, _::I don't know}" => parse => "how old is Jame ? 42 years old"
"who at 36 years old ? ?{int/yearsOld; 42::Jame !, 36::William !, _::I don't know}" => parse => "who at 42 years old ? William !"
```

</details>
</li>
</ul>

### Syntaxe Typing :

| Format                       | Type    | Description                                                             | Return                 |
|------------------------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| variableName                 | `*`     | Is the key of the value in the dictionary pass to the constructor       | value of `variableName`|
| b/True                       | `bool`  | Type the string True as `bool`                                          | True                   |
| i/123                        | `int`   | Type the string 123 as type `int`                                       | 123                    |
| f/123.4                      | `float` | Type the string 123.4 as type `float`                                   | 123.4                  |
| "text" or 'text' or \`text\` | `str`   | It just takes what's in quote, not to be interpreted as a variable name | text                   |

### TODO

- [ ] : Add exemple
- [x] : Add test

Commit message:

Update test Fix bug Fix readme

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <h1>TemplateStr-Python</h1>
    <h3>TemplateStr allows to add variable, function, condition and switch in a string.</h3>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-v3.6%5E-green?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=ffd13e&color=3470a2"/>
    <a href="https://github.com/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/actions/workflows/python-app.yml">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/Python test?label=Test&style=flat-square"/>
    </a>
</div>

### Install :

```
pip install https://github.com/CheeseGrinder/TemplateStr-Python/archive/vX.X.X.tar.gz
```

### Import :

```python
from templateStr import TemplateStr
```

### Construtor :

```python
parser = TemplateStr(functionList: list, variableDict: dict)
```

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary><code>functionList</code>: is a list of Functions you want to pass to be called in your text</summary><br>

```python
funcs: list = [meCustomFunc, otherCustomFunc]
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary><code>variableDict</code>: is a dictionary of the Variables you want to pass to be called in your text</summary><br>

```python
varDict: dict = {
    "Build": "Succes",
    "var": "int",
    "str": "Jame",
    "int": 32,
    "float": 4.2,
    "bool": True,
    "lower": "azerty",
    "upper": "AZERTY",
    "swap": "AzErTy",
    "list": ["test", 42],
    "Dict": {"value": "Dict in Dict"},
    "MasterDict": {"SecondDict": {"value": "Dict in Dict in Dict"}},
}
```

</details>
</li>
</ul>

### Function :

```python
parser.parse(text)
```

- `parse(text: str) -> str` : parse all (variable, function, condition and switch)
- `parseVariable(text: str) -> str` : parse Variable ; ${variableName}
- `parseFunction(text: str) -> str` : parse Function and Custom Function ; @{functionName}
- `parseCondition(text: str) -> str` : parse Condition ; #{value1 == value2; trueValue | falseValue}
- `parseSwitch(text: str) -> str` : parse Switch ; ?{var; value1:#0F0, value2:#00F, ..., _:#000}
- `hasOne(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are one syntaxe
- `hasVariable(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Variable
- `hasFunction(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Function
- `hasCondition(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Condition
- `hasSwitch(text: str) -> bool` : check if there are any Switch

### Exemple Syntaxe :

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Variable</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Variables is like if :
- `${variable}`
- `${Map.value}`
- `${MasterMap.SecondMap.value. ...}`
- `${list[0]}`

if the value does not exist then `None` is return

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"

"name is ${name}" => parse => "name is Jame"
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Function</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Function is like if : `@{function; parameter}` or `@{function}`

internal function list :

- `@{uppercase; variableName}`
- `@{uppercaseFirst; variableName}`
- `@{lowercase; variableName}`
- `@{swapcase; variableName}`
- `@{time}`
- `@{date}`
- `@{dateTime}`

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "jame"

"name is @{uppercase; name}" => parse => "name is JAME"
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Custom Function</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Custom Function is like if : `@{customFunction; param1 param2 ...}` or `@{customFunction}`

`Syntaxe Typing` can be used at the parameter level of custom functions

For developers :
- Parameters to be passed in a `list/vec/array`
- The custom function must necessarily return a `str/string`

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Condition</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Condition is like if :
- `#{value1 == value2; trueValue | falseValue}`

comparator:
- `==`
- `!=`
- `<=` *
- `<` *
- `>=` *
- `>` *

<details>
<summary>* for this comparator the type <code>string</code> and <code>bool</code> are modified :</summary>

- `string` it's the number of characters that is compared ('text' = 4)
- `bool` it's the value in int that is compared (True = 1)

</details></br>

`value1` is compared with `value2`

`Syntaxe Typing` can be used at `value1` and `value2` level

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"

"Jame is equal to James ? #{name == 'James'; Yes | No}" => parse => "Jame is equal to James ? No"
```

</details>
</li>

<li>
<details>
<summary><strong>Switch</strong></summary>
</br>

The syntax of the Switch is like if : 
- `?{variableName; value1::#0F0, value2::#00F, ..., _::#000}`
- `?{type/variableName; value1::#0F0, value2::#00F, ..., _::#000}`

The value of `variableName` is compared with all the `values*`,
if a `values*` is equal to the value of `variableName` then the value after the ":" will be returned

you can specify the type of `variableName`, but don't use `Syntaxe Typing`.
If the type is specified then all `values*` will be typed with the same type.

syntaxe for specify type `variableName` :
- `str`
- `int`
- `float`

<!-- V Be careful, it's not a "go" code, it's just to have some colour in the rendering -->
```go
name = "Jame"
yearsOld = 36

"how old is Jame ? ?{name; Jame::42 years old, William::36 years old, _::I don't know}" => parse => "how old is Jame ? 42 years old"
"who at 36 years old ? ?{int/yearsOld; 42::Jame !, 36::William !, _::I don't know}" => parse => "who at 42 years old ? William !"
```

</details>
</li>
</ul>

### Syntaxe Typing :

| Format                       | Type    | Note                                                                    | Return                 |
|------------------------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| variableName                 | `*`     | Is the key of the value in the dictionary pass to the constructor       | value of `variableName`|
| b/True                       | `bool`  | Type the string True as `bool`                                          | True                   |
| i/123                        | `int`   | Type the string 123 as type `int`                                       | 123                    |
| f/123.4                      | `float` | Type the string 123.4 as type `float`                                   | 123.4                  |
| "text" or 'text' or \`text\` | `str`   | It just takes what's in quote, not to be interpreted as a variable name | text                   |
| ("test", i/56)               | `list`  | Use typing for typed otherwise text will be used as variable name       | ("test", 56)           |

### TODO

- [ ] : Add exemple
- [x] : Add test
